## Section 2: Description of the data

The Covid dataset that we are planning to use for this Dashboard is from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/imdevskp/corona-virus-report) which was last updated on 6th August 2020. In particular, we are interested in the data containing in the **full_grouped.csv** file as it is the most comprehensive in terms of countries recorded and the dates included. Unfortunately, it only includes data from 22nd January 2020, the pandemic's start to 27th July 2020, which spans 187 days. In total, 187 countries are reporting their daily statistics. However, due to various reasons, not all countries can record statistics for the whole period.

Each observation is Covid statistics for a particular country on a specific day, sorted chronologically based on the date recorded and alphabetically based on the country name. Each country is associated with a region defined by WHO in `WHO Region` column, which can serve the purpose of aggregating data into continents. Besides, there are two groups of statistical data that are in our interest. The first group is cumulative data from the beginning of the pandemic including the total number of confirmed cases (`Confirmed`), the total number of deaths (`Deaths`), the number of people who have recovered (`Recovered`) and the count of those who are still infected (`Active`). Those who are still infected are computed by deducting deceased and recovered patients from the total number of confirmed cases. On the other hand, the second group is daily data comprising new cases (`New cases`), new deaths (`New deaths`) and newly recovered people (`New recovered`).
